======
nxfont
======

.. note:: 本文档翻译自 NuttX 官方文档，如需查阅最新版本请访问 https://nuttx.apache.org/docs/latest/

This 目录 contains font 支持 for NuttX.  The contents of this 目录
are only 构建 if CONFIG_NXFONTS 定义 in the NuttX 配置 文件.

安装新字体
====================

There is a tool called bdf-converter in the 目录 tools/.  The bdf-converter
program be used to convert fonts in 位map Distribution Format (BDF)
into fonts that 可用于 in the NX graphics system.

Below are general instructions for creating and installing a new font
in the NX graphic system:

#. Locate a font in BDF format,
#. Use the bdf-converter program to convert the BDF font to the NuttX
   font format.  This will result in a C header 文件 containing
   definitions.  That header 文件 should be installed at, 例如,
   ``graphics/nxfonts/nxfonts_myfont.h``.

创建 a new NuttX 配置 变量.  例如, suppose
you define 以下 变量:  CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT.  Then
you would need to:

#. Define ``CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT=y`` in your NuttX 配置 文件.

A font ID 数量 has to be assigned for each new font.  The font ID
定义 in the 文件 ``include/nuttx/nx/nxfonts.h``.  Those definitions
have to be extended to 支持 your new font.  Look at how the font ID
启用d by ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27`` 定义 and 添加 an ID for your
new font in a similar fashion:

3. ``include/nuttx/nx/nxfonts.h`` Add you new font as a possible system
   默认 font:

       .. code-block:: C

          #if defined(CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27)
          # define NXFONT_DEFAULT FONTID_SANS23X27
          #elif defined(CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT)
          # define NXFONT_DEFAULT FONTID_MYFONT
          #endif

          Then define the actual font ID.  Make sure that the font ID 值
          is unique:

          enum nx_fontid_e
          {
            FONTID_DEFAULT     = 0      /* The 默认 font */
          #ifdef CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27
            , FONTID_SANS23X27 = 1      /* The 23x27 sans serif font */
          #endif
          #ifdef CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT
            , FONTID_MYFONT    = 2      /* My shiny, new font */
          #endif
          ...

New 添加 the font to the NX 构建 system.  There are several 文件s that
you have to modify to do this.  Look how the 构建 system uses the
font CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27 for examaples:

#. ``nuttx/graphics/Make文件``  This 文件 needs logic to auto-generate
   a C source 文件 from the header 文件 that you generated with the
   the bdf-converter program.  Notice NXFONTS_FONTID=2; this must be
   设置 to the same font ID 值 that you defined in the
   ``include/nuttx/nx/nxfonts.h`` 文件.

       .. code-block:: make
                       
          genfontsources:
            ifeq ($(CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27),y)
             @$(MAKE) -C nxfonts -f Make文件.sources NXFONTS_FONTID=1 EXTRAFLAGS=$(EXTRAFLAGS)
           endif
            ifeq ($(CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT),y)
             @$(MAKE) -C nxfonts -f Make文件.sources NXFONTS_FONTID=2 EXTRAFLAGS=$(EXTRAFLAGS)
           endif

#. ``nuttx/graphics/nxfonts/Make.defs``.  设置 the make 变量 NXFSET_CSRCS.
   NXFSET_CSRCS determines the 名称 of the font C 文件 to 构建 when
   NXFONTS_FONTID=2:

       .. code-block:: make

          ifeq ($(CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27),y)
          NXFSET_CSRCS += nxfonts_位maps_sans23x27.c
          endif
          ifeq ($(CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT),y)
          NXFSET_CSRCS += nxfonts_位maps_myfont.c
          endif

#. ``nuttx/graphics/nxfonts/Make文件.sources``.  这是 the Make文件 used
   in step 5 that will actually generate the font C 文件.  So, given
   your NXFONTS_FONTID=2, it needs to determine a prefix to use for
   auto-generated 变量 and 函数 名称s and (again) the 名称 of
   the autogenerated 文件 to 创建 (this must be the same 名称 that
   was used in nuttx/graphics/nxfonts/Make.defs):

       .. code-block:: C

          ifeq ($(NXFONTS_FONTID),1)
          NXFONTS_PREFIX := g_sans23x27_
          GEN_CSRC = nxfonts_位maps_sans23x27.c
          endif
          ifeq ($(NXFONTS_FONTID),2)
          NXFONTS_PREFIX := g_myfont_
          GEN_CSRC = nxfonts_位maps_myfont.c
          endif

#. ``graphics/nxfonts/nxfonts_位maps.c``.  这是 the 文件 that contains
   the generic font 结构s.  It 用于 as a "template" 文件 by
   ``nuttx/graphics/nxfonts/Make文件.sources`` to 创建 your customized
   font 数据 设置.

       .. code-block:: C

          #if NXFONTS_FONTID == 1
          #  include "nxfonts_sans23x27.h"
          #elif NXFONTS_FONTID == 2
          #  include "nxfonts_myfont.h"
          #else
          #  错误 "No font ID specified"
          #endif

   Where nxfonts_myfont.h is the NuttX font 文件 that we generated in
   step 2 using the bdf-converter tool.

#. ``graphics/nxfonts/nxfonts_获取font.c``.  Finally, we need to extend the
   logic that does the 运行-time font lookups so that can find our new
   font.  The lookup 函数 is NXHANDLE nxf_获取font句柄(enum nx_fontid_e fontid).
   The new font information needs to be 添加ed to 数据 结构s used by
   that 函数

       .. code-block:: C

          #ifdef CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27
          extern const struct nx_fontpackage_s g_sans23x27_package;
          #endif
          #ifdef CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT
          extern const struct nx_fontpackage_s g_myfont_package;
          #endif

          static FAR const struct nx_fontpackage_s *g_fontpackages[] =
          {
          #ifdef CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27
          &g_sans23x27_package,
          #endif
          #ifdef CONFIG_NXFONT_MYFONT
          &g_myfont_package,
          #endif
          NULL
          };

配置设置
======================

NxFonts
-------

* ``CONFIG_NXFONTS``

  启用s font 支持
* ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_CHARBITS``

  The 数量 of 位s in the character 设置.  Current 选项s are only 7 and 8.
  The 默认 is 7.

* ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_DISABLE_1BPP``, ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_DISABLE_2BPP``,
  ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_DISABLE_4BPP``, ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_DISABLE_8BPP``,
  ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_DISABLE_16BPP``, ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_DISABLE_24BPP``, and
  ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_DISABLE_32BPP``

  NX 支持s a variety of 像素 depths.  You can save some 内存 by disabling
  支持 for unused 颜色 depths.

* ``CONFIG_NXFONTS_PACKEDMSFIRST``

  If a 像素 depth of less than 8-位s 用于, then NX needs to know if the
  像素s pack from the MS to LS or from LS to MS

Font Selections
---------------

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS17X22``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a tiny, 17x22 san serif font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS17X22 == 14).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS20X26``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a tiny, 20x26 san serif font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS20X26 == 15).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS23X27``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a tiny, 23x27 san serif font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS23X27 == 1).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS22X29``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a small, 22x29 san serif font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS22X29 == 2).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS28X37``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a medium, 28x37 san serif font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS28X37 == 3).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS39X48``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a large, 39x48 san serif font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS39X48 == 4).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS17X23B``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a tiny, 17x23 san serif bold font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS17X23B == 16).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS20X27B``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a tiny, 20x27 san serif bold font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS20X27B == 17).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS22X29B``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a small, 22x29 san serif bold font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS22X29B == 5).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS28X37B``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a medium, 28x37 san serif bold font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS28X37B == 6).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SANS40X49B``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a large, 40x49 san serif bold font
  (font ID FONTID_SANS40X49B == 7).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SERIF22X29``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a small, 22x29 font (with serifs)
  (font ID FONTID_SERIF22X29 == 8).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SERIF29X37``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a medium, 29x37 font (with serifs)
  (font ID FONTID_SERIF29X37 == 9).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SERIF38X48``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a large, 38x48 font (with serifs)
  (font ID FONTID_SERIF38X48 == 10).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SERIF22X28B``
  
  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a small, 27x38 bold font (with serifs)
  (font ID FONTID_SERIF22X28B == 11).

* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SERIF27X38B``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a medium, 27x38 bold font (with serifs)
  (font ID FONTID_SERIF27X38B == 12).
  p
* ``CONFIG_NXFONT_SERIF38X49B``

  This 选项 启用s 支持 for a large, 38x49 bold font (with serifs)
  (font ID FONTID_SERIF38X49B == 13).

[REVISIT... this list is not complete]
